post IETF 114 BoF charter proposal (#18)
ietf-scitt/charter: ietf-scitt-charter.md

For example, a public computer interface system could report its software composition, which can be compared against known software compositions for such a device, as recorded in a public append-only transparent registry.
Therefore, providing an individual using the system with confidence that it will behave as and when expected, consistently and without deviation.

Problem Statement
=================
It is challenging to manage the compliance of products across end-to-end, global supply chains. 

Some of the fundamental security issues that face the supply chain ecosystem today are as follows:

1. A single product is composed of multiple sub-products coming from different suppliers. There is no agreed-upon standard to compose information from different producers as every vendor is doing it differently.
2. There are no APIs defined for automated publishing, retrieval, or independent verification of the information above.
3. The absence of decentralized, globally interoperable, transparent services to publish the supply chain data.
4. The lack of sufficient standards for independently verifying the presence of supply chain data in tamper-proof data stores.

> 5. Software consumers have no trustworthy way to verify that a software signature on a software package is legitimate.

Reviewer: Since there are many folks out there who will tell you, my PGP verification system works just fine and is plenty trustworthy, perhaps we could focus instead on closing the gap from a methodology perspective of how the attestations generated are consumed in a uniform way across environments to allow for easy adoption by any existing ecosystem whose current status may fall under bullet 5

```suggestion
5. Fractured verification methodologies across software distribution ecosystems create inconsistent security guarantees for end users.
```

Reviewer: (5) sounds related to @rjb4standards's comment made here: https://github.com/ietf-scitt/charter/pull/18/files#r957557301

Reviewer 2: It seems we could preserve the existing 5 and add the proposed new 5 as 6 as they both provide justification for the purpose
+6. Fractured verification methodologies across software distribution ecosystems create inconsistent security guarantees for end users.

Author: As the "old" (5.) is a verbatim quote from Dick at the BoF and he is okay with the change, I am okay with the change. Was about to merge, but will give folks 12h to object.

Reviewer 2: Henk, my suggestion is to keep the old 5 and add John's recommendation as 6

Author: What I am reading is that old (5.) and new (6.) do not read too redundant? I am neutral on the issue. Any objections to simply adding (6.)?

Reviewer 3: No they are not independent statements, but can be clubbed using OR

Reviewer 3: So it should be joined using OR, either lacking verifying methods or fragmented verifying methods

Reviewer 2: @yogeshbdeshpande they are certainly all within the same context of verification, but the new 6 is more abstract. Using an ice cream analogy, 6 is like saying "ice cream is made from dairy products and other ingredients", which is also true for a more direct, less abstract statement, like the current 5,  i.e. Chocolate ice cream is made from whole milk, sugar and chocolate flavoring, which the supplier of the chocolate flavoring cannot be determined or verified.

Reviewer 3: ok, in that case, we should really swap (5) and (6).
Reason been current (6) talks about SW distribution systems while current (6) talks about end user!

Reviewer 2: No objections to swapping 5 and 6, so that John's proposal becomes 5 and the original 5 becomes 6.

> 5. Software consumers have no trustworthy way to verify that a software signature on a software package is legitimate.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Software consumers have no trustworthy way to verify that a software signature on a software package is legitimate.
5. Fractured verification methodologies across software distribution ecosystems create inconsistent security guarantees for end users.
```

Reviewer 4: This proposal keeps both.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Fractured verification methodologies across software distribution ecosystems create inconsistent security guarantees for end users.
6. Software consumers have no trustworthy way to verify that a software signature on a software package is legitimate.
```

A minimal, simple, and concise set of building blocks that interact in a standardized way will assure long-term accountability and interoperability for supply chain components throughout their lifecycles across architecturally diverse systems.

Goals
=====
Based on an input document on the architecture (draft-birkholz-scitt-architecture-00), the WG will:

1. Standardize the overall technical security flows for securing a software supply chain, which also includes firmware, and covering the essential building blocks that make up the architecture.
2. In addition to this, the WG shall employ the existing work already done within
    - other IETF WGs such as COSE WG, and IETF RATS WG, as appropriate, as well as

>     - in coordination with other bodies, such as the, OpenSSF, W3C, or the Trusted Computing Group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - in coordination with other standards bodies, such as the, OpenSSF, W3C, or the Trusted Computing Group.
```

Author: okay

While these improvements help organizations increase efficiency and swiftly bring innovations to market, the rapid increase in scale, size, and complexity of supply chains has led to more frequent and sophisticated supply chain attacks.
The traditional methods of safeguarding supply chains (e.g., pre- and post-audit methodologies) are no longer adequate.

> Scitt forms a building block that will allow implemeters to compose complex supply chain integrity systems. For example, public computer interface system could report its software composition and that can be compared against known software compositions for such a device, recorded in a public ledger, thus providing an individual using the system with confidence that it will behave as expected, when expected, and nothing/nowhen else.

Author: The text read to me like the attempt to illustrate how SCITT fits into existing work (namely RATS) and how the bigger picture looks like. I tried to rephrase the text a bit better towards this goal. We need some feedback, if this expositional text renders the charter more or less readable/focused, though :-)

```suggestion
The output of the SCITT WG composes building blocks that allow implementers to compose complex supply chain integrity systems. For example, public computer interface systems are enabled to report their software composition (facilitating, e.g., out from the RATS WG), which in turn can be compared against known software compositions for such devices enabled via SCITT WG output: building blocks that enable the recording in a public append only logs and corresponding proofs. Thus providing an individual using the system with confidence that the system will behave as expected, when expected, and doing nothing else.
```

Reviewer 5: I would change "building blocks" to "a set of standards" to reflect what it is. Building block implies something is already built.  Also, I would drop "complex" as it is a negative word, "supply chain integrity systems" is complex enough.

> SCITT WG aims to deliver a set of standards that allow implementers to compose supply chain integrity systems.

Example could be moved to a separate dedicated section as it adds confusion.

Reviewer 3: I agree with Ivar, we need to correct the statement.
```suggestion
The output of the SCITT WG is a set of standards that define the essential building blocks that enables security of a complex supply chain system. Following these standards will assist implementers to compose complex supply chain system in a secure manner. For example, public computer interface system could report its software composition and that can be compared against known software compositions for such a device, recorded in a public append only transparent registry, thus providing an individual using the system with confidence that it will behave as and when expected, and doing nothing else.
```

Author: Pending a few editorial changes, this reads good. Do we want to drop "complex"? Sounds okay to me.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The output of the SCITT WG is a set of standards that define the essential building blocks enabling the security of a complex supply chain system and assisting implementers in securing deployments. For example, a public computer interface system could report its software composition, which can be compared against known software compositions for such a device, as recorded in a public append-only transparent registry. Therefore, providing an individual using the system with confidence that it will behave as and when expected and will do nothing else.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The output of the SCITT WG is a set of standards that define the essential building blocks enabling the security of supply chain systems and assisting implementers in securing deployments. For example, a public computer interface system could report its software composition, which can be compared against known software compositions for such a device, as recorded in a public append-only transparent registry. Therefore, providing an individual using the system with confidence that it will behave as and when expected and will do nothing else.
```

Removed complex as requested. Does that read okay?

Reviewer 6: That reads well.  Fantastic work, everyone.

Problem Statement
=================

> It is challenging to manage the compliance of products across end-to-end, global supply chains. 

Reviewer 2: Please update the problem statement to match the BOF Problem statement

Author: Will do in another PR

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion, please consider replacing "and nothing/nowhen else." WITH 
"consistently, without deviation."

Author: Saving 1st comment in issue & adding 2nd comment via commit.

=====
Based on an input document on the architecture (draft-birkholz-scitt-architecture-00), the WG will:

> 1. Standardize the overall technical security flows for securing a software supply chain, including a focus on firmware, and covering the essential building blocks that make up the architecture, as well as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Standardize the overall technical security flows for securing a software supply chain, which also includes firmware, and covering the essential building blocks that make up the architecture, as well as
```

Author: Ack

> 2. specify these building blocks, employing the existing work already done within

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. In addition to this, the WG shall employ the existing work already done within
```

Author: now the sentence started in 1. ends open ended in a "as well as". Do you intend the break up the numbered items into separate sentences?

Author: Ack

1. make recommendations or suggestions on best practices on how to design the supply chain,
2. establish a universal/centralized registry for supply chain data,
3. try to prevent supply chain issuers from making false claims,

> 4. define data formats for payload content, such as Bills of Materials data formats

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. define data formats for payload content, such as Bills of Materials data formats.
```

Program of Work
===============

The main deliverables defined by this program of work provide a guideline for milestones that are in scope of the WG charter. Documents produced by the working group will address one or more of the following main deliverables:

## Architectural Model: Actors, Interactions, Terminology

The WG shall start out by documenting and defining terms in an architectural model for:

> 1. essential actors, such as the claim's "issuer", "notary", and "consumer" (one which generates supply chain artifacts and statements about them) and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. essential actors, such as the claim's "issuer"  (one which generates supply chain artifacts and statements about them), "notary", and "consumer" and
```

Author: okay!

## Generic Protocol Bindings for Information Model and Interaction Models

> The WG shall standardize request-response interactions ("external API") and potentially other generic interaction schemes provided to various actors to interact with the supply chain ecosystem. This includes standardizing inter-component messages (based on the interaction models) and payload serialization between supply chain actors to support easy reference implementations of SCITT building blocks by various organizations and easy industry-wide adaptation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The WG shall standardize request-response interactions ("external API") and potentially other generic interaction schemes provided to various  external entities to interact with the supply chain ecosystem. This includes standardizing inter-component messages (based on the interaction models) and payload serialization between supply chain actors to support easy reference implementations of SCITT building blocks by various organizations and easy industry-wide adaptation.
```

Author: Do we want to change from actors now? In the meeting yesterday, actors seemed to have reached a "good enough" consensus, including chairs.

Reviewer 3: Either change it to external actors to distinguish it clearly from SCITT actors or call it external entities for external parties, either one is fine with me

Author: What I am reading is that the use of actor in "Architectural Model: Actors, Interactions, Terminology" has different semantics than the use of actor here in "Generic Protocol Bindings for Information Model and Interaction Models".

That is why @yogeshbdeshpande proposes "external entities" instead of "actors".

My question: Are the semantics actually different? Either way it might make sense. If we mean "issuer", "notary", "consumer", etc. here, we are fine.
